these rice stocks at the International
Rice Research Institute may look typical
but the greens they produce are a
margarine yellow golden rice gets its
color from a gene inserted from corn and
the soil bacteria the gene gives the
rice better carotene which generates
vitamin A when eaten
golden rice is being marketed as secure
the vitamin A deficiency a leading cause
of blindness in the world in the
Philippines alone 2 million women and
children are affected by vitamin A
deficiency we need to deal with them and
the fact is that Filipinos eat a lot of
rice on the average we eat 135 123 kilos
per head per year so since rice is so
much a part of our diet
why don't we improve it golden rice is
now undergoing multi-location field
trials in different parts of the
Philippines it needs to pass three more
tests before making it to the dining
tables but not everyone is convinced by
the noble goals of golden rice golden
rice is at the forefront of a larger
debate on GMOs one side see stream as a
science used for good we need science to
solve the food security problems brought
about by rapid population growth we need
science to ensure that our families our
friends our children have nutritious
food that they need the other side says
GMOs will put companies in control of
agriculture at the expense of poor
farmers former lions Missy Bug spokesman
Chico Medina says farmers are already
experiencing this problem the Purple's
are spending something like
5,000 pesos on top of the cost of normal
high drain decor produced by the same
companies even if the gross income has
increased the net income has declined
because of the greater increase in
because of production boon or bane it's
the perennial question when technology
tinkers with our food as the court
battle nears the global spotlight is on
the Philippines
advocates say if golden rice is approved
here it will be very hard to stop the
technology and other parts of the world
be Ranade trappler Manila